Everyone will come back.
So this is a new section.
I am adding to the end of the course.
A few months back I sent a survey out asking for topics that you guys were interested in and there were
really two things that stuck out like very clearly on the graph of the results sequel plus Python which
is what the section is on and then some data structures content computer science stuff.
But the winner between the two was Python and sequel at least for now.
So what I'm going to do in this section is not teach sequel from scratch.
I have an entire course that is like 20 hours.
Its a big topic or it can be a big topic depending on how far in-depth we go.
What we're going to do is basically start with the very basics have a single video on the basic syntax
of a sequel and then I'm going to show you how it works with Python.
So even if you don't know sequel you should be able to get something out of this by the end we're going
to be scraping some some Web sites and storing the data in a sequel database.
But if you do no sequel.
The other thing that is kind of a challenge about this section is that there's a million different sequel
databases out there and they're all slightly different as far as their syntax but also they're different
as far as which Python adapter we use which module we use to connect to that database.
There's one of those multiple to work with postscripts or my as well or sequel light.
There's all these different tools and I had to pick one and it came down to this.
There's tons of databases out there and it could have I could have made the decision based off of what
database is most commonly used with Python.
What database are my students wanting to learn the most.
In that case I would do something like Mongo probably.
But at the end of the day they all are a huge pain to install and they all work in a very similar way.
At least the sequel ones.
So things like my as well postgresql sequel light.
Once you understand the basics of how to connect to a database what a cursor is then it's just a tiny
tweak between the different databases to really migrate from one to the other.
So because they all are a pain to install especially things like my ask you all and postgresql across
different platforms we're using a database called sequel lite sequel like 3.
So it is a sequel database.
It's definitely not as full featured as something like my ass.
Q Will not used as commonly in production environments but it comes pre-installed on many machines.
So that's a plus.
We don't have to deal with installation on some machines.
It's not it won't be the case for everyone to have a video on that next.
It is a very simple syntax.
There's only a couple of data types we have to worry about.
It's not overly complicated so that we can focus on the Python part rather than having to spend you
know hours explaining sequel for postscripts.
But at the same time because it's not that complicated it's also not especially powerful.
So I'm not turn and use this as an example of this is the best sequel database ever.
It's just the best one to fit the needs of this section and also another good reason Python comes with
the sequel 3 module as part of the standard library.
So we don't have to install anything to connect to sequel 3.
Well on the Python side of things you might have to actually install sequel lite but we don't have to
go and install a package to use in python like we would with some other databases.
So that's where we're going.
We're going to start by in the next video talking about how do you know if you have it already.
And if you don't have to install it then we'll talk about the basics of sequel lite syntax and work
with the show sort of type some basic commands.
If you already know sequel then you can probably skip that and then afterwards we'll dive into the basics
of connecting with Python writing queries connecting to a database selecting things inserting data that
sort of thing and then finally we will scrape some data from a web site and store it into a database.
OK.
See then.